# "Please" - an experimental programming language

Please can read (i.e. parse) text generated by speech recognition software (such as Mac Dictation), so you can code by talking to your computer.

# Example code in Please:

First transcribe this code:

```
Please print this string of words
```

When you run that code, it prints out:

```
this string of words
```

# Use:

1. Download this project from GitHub.

2. Open the folder using Terminal or Command-line.

3. Then type the following command and hit enter:

```
python interpreter.py text.txt
```

The *interpreter* will interpret and run the *text* file as "source code" written in Please.

Requires Python: https://www.python.org/downloads

# Why?

What if code could be easy to read and be *more* like English sentences? What if you could easily write code just by talking with speech recognition software? How might you combine these two things (easy-to-read and easy-to-say code)?

Please is an attempt at that.

Here are 3 ground rules to make commands easier to say, but also easier for speech recognition software and Please's code interpreter to understand:

1. **Just say words that use your ABCs and spaces between**. No special non-letter characters like "?". Why? Speed and recognition. Saying "question mark" just to type out "?" is slow and could be faulty if the speech recognition software thinks you literally want the words "question mark".
2. **Avoid specialized words or names**. Why? So you don't have to specifically train your speech recognition software to recognize uncommon words like "numpy" (mine thought I said "numb pie"). Workaround/trade-off: you have to spell it out, maybe using the first letters of more common words, like "**N**eptune **u**nicorn **m**oose **p**anda **Y**oda" to spell out "numpy". Afterwards, you can reassign "numpy" to a shorter label that uses more common words, like "numb pie" or "pneumatic".
3. **"Be polite"**. Each new sentence starts with "please" and roughly marks out a new command or line in the code.

# More Example Code:

## Print:

```
Please print this string of words
```
--> This prints out: `this string of words`

## Spell Out a Special Word:

```
Please spell with the first letters of Neptune unicorn moose panda Yoda
```
--> This outputs: `numpy`

## Create Variable:

```
Please create variable apple
```

or

```
Please variable banana
```

## Assign Value to Variable:

```
Please assign one to variable apple
Please assign three hundred to variable banana
Please assign some words to variable coconut
```
--> This generates: apple = 1, banana = 300, coconut = 'some words'.

Note: variables automatically get created if you didn't already create them.

## Import:

```
Please import alternate
```

```
Please import test from library
```

```
Please import numpy as nectarine pony
```

```
Please import numpy as please import numpy as spell with the first letters of Neptune unicorn moose panda Yoda
```

## Use An Import Module's Function:

```
Please import test from library
Please use test_function of test
Please use test_function from test
```
--> This prints twice: `Yay the import test_function() of test.py from the "library" folder works!`

## Math:

```
Please one plus two
```
--> This outputs: `3`

```
Please one plus one equals two
```
--> This outputs: `True`

## If-Then Statement:

```
Please if one equals one then print it works
```
--> This prints out: `it works`

```
Please if one equals two then print it should not print this
```
--> (This doesn't print anything.)

## Comment:

```
Please note this is a comment
```
--> (The interpreter ignores this sentence.)

# Inspirations for Please:

https://github.com/hchiam/programmingByVoice

https://github.com/AnotherTest/-English

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLBOh8f9FoHHiKx3ZCPxOZWUtZswrj2zI0

# Ideas for Development:

* ~~Try to be able to enter words that are likely to not be trained into Mac Dictation by default (like the word 'numpy'). How? Maybe use some kind of spelling convention, like using the first letters of the words 'Neptune unicorn moose panda Yoda' --> 'numpy'.~~

* ~~Try to map number strings to digits.~~

* ~~Try to import existing python libraries like numpy.~~

* ~~Try variables. Maybe something like 'variable apple' and 'variable apple equals one'.~~

* ~~Try if-then statement like "Please if one equals two then print it should not print this".~~

    * ~~At "then" get math_result of "one equals one".~~
    
    * ~~If math_result == True: keep reading, don't reset if_state, and then after "then" start math_string, print, etc.~~

* ~~Try enable remap 'numpy' to 'numb pie'.~~

* Try enable: "Please import spell with the first letters of Neptune unicorn moose panda Yoda as numb pie".

* Try to make sure certain keyword checks are "isolated" from each other.

* Try "Please import spell with the first letters of hippo igloo **ok/okay**" with ok/okay as an 'escape' signal to stop spelling.

* Try using check_spell as check_spell(sentence) and moving it up to loop with sentences, not words.

* Try embedded expressions. Maybe use "thanks" as a closing bracket of sorts?

* Try loops.

* Try functions.

* Try classes.

* Try in-browser trinket that loads most recent python code from github for you. No installation required.

* Try compiling into C or something so the code can run faster.
